The Joe Rogan experience.
During these overwhelming periods of anxiety and fear and terror
and injury. And when your body is thinking like, Hey man, this might be it.
You know,
and I think that's probably what a lot of these near death experiences are,
is that people are experiencing what you would call an endogenous psychedelic
experience that your,
your brain is releasing these potent chemicals that it has.
It absolutely has inside of it. Your, your, your brain has a ton of different,
you know, things like dethyltriptamine and different psychedelic chemicals.
It's capable of producing as well as like melatonin, dopamine, serotonin,
adrenaline cortisol. There's,
there's a storm room of going on in your brain.
And, and in a moment like your death, just yeah, in a moment like death,
like jacks.
It all out, it,
your system probably pumps it through your neurons and everything's firing,
and you're seeing things that aren't there and you're talking to dead relatives
and you're imagining the pearlley gates and you're imagination is on 10.
And you're just seeing everything. That's the reductionionist perspective. The,
the, the hopeful, optimistic, uh,
spiritual woo woo perspective is this is a chemical gateway,
and you're seeing through the door of the other side.
And then when they decide it's not your time yet,
you're sucked back to where you lie.
And then you're allowed to resume this life cuz you have more work to do.
And that's the perspective that a lot of people feel when they come out of those
experiences, right? They feel like I have more work to do. I can't stop. Now.
My mom years ago, God, it was like 10 years ago.
More than that even maybe 15 years ago at this point had a heart attack, uh,
or a heart episode. Uh, rather my dad died of a heart attack,
but my mom was on the table and they were putting a stent into her heart,
into her artery <affirmative> and uh,
she was sitting there chit chatting while they were doing the surgery.
I guess she was on a local, more so than anything else. And uh,
she was joking around with the doctor. She's like here, I got hurry up doc.
Cause I gotta pick up my mom for the, and then went out, whoa.
And so she died for a minute and a half clinically dead.
They kept to restart the art. So I was like, what,
what just, what happened? What was it? And she didn't.
She said, you know, she didn't describe,
like I saw the bright lights and I saw people and blah, blah, blah.
She said I was floating and I was like, floating up. She goes,
no floating on my back. I was like, okay,
well you were on your back and the hospital. Do you think that's what it was?
She's like, I don't know. But this is, this is what I remember.
Every
iota of responsibility I ever felt in my life was gone. She's like,
I felt free. Like I felt instantly lighter.
And just as I was heading in a direction,
that's when like they pulled her back.
So she'd been dead for like a minute and a half her hearted stop. So I was like,
all right, you've been in this best of all possible worlds for,
you know, 60 plus years.
Now you've seen a glimpse of the other side, which is better.
And my mom said the other side and I said, what?
You were there for like a minute and changed why?
And she said I was completely free.
Like that was it. I didn't, I didn't know this one.
I don't have to care for this one.
I don't have to make sure this isn't taken care of.
I don't have to feed the cat. She was like, it was bliss. She's like,
and if that's what happens, then I look forward to that again.
So when I was having my three months ago and the doctor was like,
you got a 20% chance of living.
I was sitting there going through all the in my head about like, all right,
well, this is it. You're, you've spent your life with your head up your.
You know, trying to figure out who you are. Go ahead,
look at your head and heart. What is your, this is it. This is the big moment.
Like, what are your thoughts what's going through? And I, you know,
I'm such a chicken in life. I assume that I'd be like, the guy was like,
I'll suck your Dick to stay in this life.
Cuz I know this life and I don't know what happens afterwards and stuff.
So I thought I'd be begging for, you know,
for help from God or something like that. But I was like, I made dogma.
I'm sure Jesus would be like, go to hell, you buddy Christ my.
So instead of doing the, the religious thing,
I started thinking about just the journey itself. I was like, well,
if the journey's ending, what are your thoughts?
Just like when the day held up the phone, they were like,
do you wanna talk to your wife? And I was like, I, no, of course I did,
but I didn't want to cuz I was like, I know in my heart of hearts, if I an,
if I speak to my wife right now, I'm gonna be in that 20%. I'm I'm gonna die.
I'm gonna be in the 80%. I'm gonna drop dead because cuz that's,
that's the intensity of it. Not even like, oh my God, it's gonna kill me. It,
it just the way they were. So like, do you want your wife is on the phone?
Do you wanna speak to her right now was very leading and
you know,
they're professionals and these cats deal with life and death every day.
And this was my first experience with it.
So what I got out of it was you're probably gonna die was what they felt. Yeah.
And it still, I was in the state of like,
I didn't even realize I was under a heart attack.
And so I remember looking at the phone and being like, um, if I answer it,
if I talk to Jennifer, that's gonna be it. I'm not gonna leave this room.
So I was like, I'm gonna play the odds if I don't talk to Jennifer,
maybe there's some part of me, me. That's like, look,
I like talking to Jennifer. We've been together 20 years.
I better enjoy talking to Jennifer. Maybe if I put this phone call off,
you know that I'll get to talk to Jennifer when it's all done.
So I said to the dude, I was like, you know what? Tell her, I'll call her back.
And the guy goes seriously. And I was like, yeah.
And I saw him talking and got off the phone and what she said, he goes,
she was dude. And I was like, well, I'm dealing with my own right now.
So I was laying there on the table and I was like going through my life
and I was more grateful than anything else. I wasn't scared anymore.
That was the thing. That was the love thing that I loved to communicate,
spent my whole life terrified of dying.
And when I was as closest to it, as I ever knew I was,
and for all I know I was closer someplace,
but like I was cognizant and told by a professional,
this is risky. I was just kind of,
I was grateful more than anything else. I was like, what a journey like, yeah.
And I'm 47 and it seems short, but like you gotta admit, you did more than,
most people get to do.
And maybe that's why it happened at an early age because you weren't gonna get
the rest of this time and like that. But like I wasn't mad.
I wasn't like why this is unfair. I remembered like, uh,
there's a issue of Sandman,
which I absolutely love Neil gaman's comic book series back in the day. And uh,
in, in like after the first story arc, uh, he, we meet his sister,
the, the main character's dream Morpheus character of dream. Uh,
he's part of the endless, and he's got a, a other siblings, delirium desire.
One of his siblings is death and they represent death in the comic book.
You know, you're used to seeing the sky than the grim Reaper and.
She's the little, uh, um, emo girl,
goth girl wearing an knock around her neck and like that.
It was written in the nineties and they don't tell you right away,
this she's death as you're reading the issue, you're like, oh.
I think she's meant to be death. She's faring souls over to the other sides.
You see a baby pass and she's holding the baby. And then there's the, the,
the refrain is like the,
I hear the sound of her wings and that's taking this soul over to the next place
as she's sitting around talking to her brother. And so he, uh,
she eventually gets into a room with this older guy. Um, who's like,
who are you? And, and you know, she's like, I'm here for you. You know who I am?
And he's like, that's it. He's like, oh my God, I did all these things.
I worked my fingers to the bone and what did I get? This is it. What did I get?
And she says, you like a line that when I read it, when I was 18,
it was powerful. But when I was laying on the table,
it was constantly going through my head and, and made it all easier.
Made me kind of at peace with the idea of dying.
There's this line she says to the guy, she goes, you get, you got what?
Everybody gets, you got a lifetime. And as I was laying there, I was like,
oh my God, I got a lifetime. Like that's, that's what, it was. Nothing more,
nothing less. And I did some in it and now it's gonna stop.
And people are gonna go on without you. And that's not terrible.
Like, I, I thought I'd be desperate to live.
And instead I had that weird,
like I understood what my mother said for the first time,
cuz I was laying there. I was like, oh my God, like I made it to the end.
Like this is it. This is the finish line.
And it had been something that I was terrified of ever getting to,
but then when really kind of faced with it, I was like, oh, like, I'm done.
Like, I'm not scared that I'm done. I'm actually kind of relieved that I'm done.
And like, you know,
like I didn't get killed and I wasn't home invaded a shark.
Didn't eat me. Um,
all the things that like I'd been terrified of my entire life.
Like I don't have to think about anymore.
I made it to the end and it it's kind of okay, so it's weird my whole life.
I thought like, you know, I'd be scared death. And most people we all are,
we're all terrified of dying. Cause we don't know,
but that's the closest I ever came and I wasn't scared.
Like suddenly the fear just went away and it seemed logical.
Like of course it's over like things end and I didn't want to die.
I wasn't didn't have a death wish, but I was like, if it's done, it's,
it's kind of, it's done and count your blessing and be happy. And don't be a.
Like don't if, if the ferryman shows up tonight,
don't hold out. Don't be the last at the party. Go no,
like just pay to ferryman, get on a boat and go,
we'll see what's next and stuff.
And then ultimately laydenheim did a good job and I wound up living and stuff.
So I, I, I know this much. I got to read a bunch of,
like after I nearly died and it was all nice.
People wrote very nice things about me and. And I expected, you know, this,
the creature of the internet that some people would be like, I wish he had died.
'em to death and. I wish he'd stay silent.
But generally it was like very nice things.
People were kind of positive and stuff. So I was like, man. Like,
you know, again, I didn't wanna die,
but like if I had like that,
would've been okay now I'm back at it. You know what I'm saying?
Like now until it ends, like I've gotta,
you know, and it's kind of easy.
As long as I don't wake up with a dead girl or a live boy,
I don't think like they'll Roke me over the coals when I die in the future and
like that.
But it felt weird to be so close to the completion and having something that
normally terrifies you suddenly be like, oh, it's okay. Like, and, and I don't,
if you walked up and put a gun in my face, I'm sure I'd feel threatened,
but a guy kind of lost my fear of death. I'm not like death defying.
I won't go out and do anything differently. But that,
that dark cloud, that kind of kills any good time.
The moment you start thinking about like the fear and anxiety,
you're gonna die one day, like, you know,
it's gone and all of a sudden I'm like, yeah,
I'm gonna die one day and it's gonna be awesome.
But not for the reasons that think I'm saying it's gonna be awesome.
This is gonna be awesome. Because a finish, like it's nice to finish things.
We know how good it feels in life to complete something.
And that's the biggest thing in life you'll ever complete is your journey.
So I didn't walk away going, like I gotta do more.
Like I gotta live life to the fullest. I,
I just gotta keep doing what I've been doing.
Like living life the way I enjoy it, trying to do things. Sometimes they work.
Sometimes I fail and. Sometimes people are on your side.
Sometimes people are like, you blow and just do that time.
Have good conversations in the process. Meet interesting people,
hear new points of view and like that and keep at it.
But it's nothing to be afraid of. Like, that's awesome.
I don't wanna get eaten by a cat. Don't get me wrong. Like, and I guarantee you,
I would not be philosophical as a big cat was crushing. My, you know,
I'd be like, James, no, I'd find prayer quick. But
death is no longer something. I'm not looking for it. And I certainlyand,
won't put myself in harm's way, but it doesn't precupy me anymore.
I've been there and it's not the thing that I was led to believe.
It was like, it's not the, the ultimate fear come true.
It's not the grimmer. APER, there's a sense, at least in my case. And again,
I didn't have a painful heart attack.
I'm sure people have heart attacks where they feel like their bodies being
ripped and cleaved in Twain. But it, it wasn't,
it wasn't that it wasn't scary. It was okay.
Well, listen, man, I'm glad you lived. Cause I love you.
And you're one of my favorite people love too. I couldn't talk often. We do. I.
I always love it. And after the heart attack, I couldn't wait to, we,
we started texting be like, bro, you gotta come in. I was like, definitely like,
I didn't.
Want to ask quick<laugh> I wanted.
That's the protocol and that's.
So gross. Like it's so morbi listen, man. You might not make it.
Do you think you get in here? The next's Tuesdays. Good.
Yeah. But no, I, I happy to be here and stuff as all, as,
as we all are happy to be above ground, it's better than below ground.
I'm happy to.
Hear your perspective too. Really? I.
Pass I along cuz you're a seeker as.
Well. And I think it means a lot to a lot of people that are listening too,
because that's what everybody's scared of. Right? Oh it blows too.
Everyone's scared of the ride, but you know, we, we.
That's what we think we're trained to think that way. Yeah. Every movie,
every book you read, every song is about like how it suck when it's over and.
And that fear can keep you from enjoying it while you're living it and.
Trying cool things and stuff like that. Yeah.
And I don't mean like putting yourself in harm's way.
Like let's shoot a movie with real lions that's been done. Don't try it.
You can watch the video, but the things where you're like,
I'd really like to try it like blah won't work or, oh, there's maybe time later.
That's the one thing I did walk away for meant like time.
You're lucky for every second, every God second. So use it.
Wisely and, and, and think, and I think if you can just think that way,
like today's a borrowed day. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know, you'll have,
sometimes you have to trick yourself into like finding more enthusiasm.
You have to trick yourself to be pumped up about stuff.
But if you can really do that and, and,
and exercise those patterns in your brain and get them normal, there's,
there's people that have tricked themselves into enjoying all sorts of things
that they know are good for them. Right. They just fire up those chemicals.
And today we're gonna just go out there and attack this day because this is a
gift. This is this isn't supposed to be here. We got.
One. I think that all the time now, honestly,
that's like an underlying that goes under almost every thought I have and it
doesn't happen constantly, but it literally happens about 10 times a week.
You'll be doing something you'll be heading somewhere.
You'll be eating something whatever to having a conversation.
And then you'll be like this isn't supposed to be happening right now.
I technically based on the odds, I was supposed to die back on that table.
So suddenly you're like, I'm playing on house money, house money,
you know what I'm saying? Have a live a house, money life kids live a house.
Money, life kids. That should be a t-shirt.
The.